hey folks it's je From Evolution
Unleashed and today we're going to look
at a unicorn that unicorn being
perplexity labs and of course a unicorn
being a privately held company that has
exceeded 1 billion US in valuation and
perplexity just achieved that and it
cost you $20 a month for their Pro
account and today we're going to dive in
and have a look at what makes perplexity
different and sort of answer the
question is this just AI hype are these
companies just getting pumped up
valuations because of AI and do they
really justify kind of the value that
they're given sort of reminiscing of the
dot era in the N late 90s when the
internet took off and online shopping
became a thing and all these companies
went up in valuation and then the hype
cycle ended and there was a massive
crash will we see that with AI well
history has a tendency to repeat but
perplexity may actually be a company
that justifies its valuation and let me
show you
why so this is perplexity $20 a month
and the biggest difference of course
folks is that you can access multiple
models explain that in a moment but
let's look at the UA functionality that
sort of stuff so you can go light or
dark the dark's a bit hard to read the
gray is is probably not going to come
through on the video very well so for
the purpose of this light but I'd
usually use dark now here's something
called you can set the default language
for perplexity perplexity oh word solids
and you can have French German Japanese
Korean or Spanish as your default
language aside from just English so it's
already got some cool multilingual
functionalities um okay but here's where
it gets funky now from the perplexity UI
which is what we're looking at here you
can access uh five models you can access
their sonar model default their
experimental new model which is sonar
I'll explain all those in a moment gp4
turbo which basically chat GPT sits on
Claud three the brand new models
released by uh our friends at anthropic
which have supposedly Leap Frog GPT I
did a video on that the other day and
you're limited to five Opus answers a
day which is their Top Model not a lot
to really push it through its Paces but
gives you a little taste and then
there's mistro uh which is a
french-based company we'll talk about in
a moment open source very cool but you
also get three different image
generators you've got playground Adali 3
and stable diffusion which is from
stability and our friend EMT mauck who's
the CEO there is uh I think one of the
cool little AI companies and what
they're trying to do is take these AI
tools like their models and fit them
onto your mobile phone so you can access
and use these AI tools without needing
to be connected to the internet without
an account all that sort of stuff very
very cool to think that we'll have ai
without needing internet connectivity
just on our mobile phones anyway I am
being uh digressed by a tangent so I
want to show you one more thing first
before we go and put complexity through
its Paces it's got a very interesting uh
way of functioning which is different
again want to show you that but
obviously the cool thing is you can
access all these different models for
$20 a month now if you want to use their
API and their playground which is
similar of course to open AI playground
you have a whole bunch of different
models you can select here so you've got
four of the sonar models which is
perplexities own uh large language
models code llama from meta mistal which
we'll talk about lava we'll talk about
Gemma that's Gemini so you've got the
two Gemini products the their Ultra and
their Pro uh that you can access and you
can do all of that you can access all of
those and you can go straight into
playground and draw direct from those
models
that's good because perplexity when you
use this one over here and we're going
to do that in a moment um does something
different which means you're not getting
just a pure outfut from GPT 4 or Claude
3 there's something else being added in
talk about that in a moment but let's
just go see who are these people mistl
is um basically a big big change it's
from a French company we'll show you
them in a moment because they have the
mistal mistal mistal easy to get
confused same company Mixel M uh does
what it says on the T basically it talks
to multiple agents and condenses the
best answer and gives it to you so it's
a way of U making these agents
multimodal multimodal I can talk to
different agents and uh in my video
yesterday we talked about the danger of
AIS talking to each other when they're a
thousand times more intelligent than us
so if you haven't seen it check it out
bit thought-provoking so that's mro and
they are part of Mist which is a French
company and the good thing about them is
they are open source okay and they have
employees from meta and Google deep
mines so you know a lot of these people
left and made their own company and
thropic was from the early split you
know so Claude is from a team of people
that split away from open AI because
they were with ELO musk they didn't like
the direction that open a were I I the
word salid they didn't like the
direction open a were going of course
that now do exactly the same thing so go
figure isn't it funny just how easy it
is to be idealistic but how hard it is
in real life anyway I digress this is
a$2 billion company it's probably the
leading open source model it's right up
there with uh the
gpts so it's a very very cool model that
can do a number of different things and
now with the mixt added in can pull from
all the different models and give you
the best answer we really are entering a
new age of AI Okay lava so who is lava
uh that's a project between Microsoft
and the University of Wisconsin and
they're basically trying to make um an
AI with eyes so it can understand the
world around it pretty much like what
open ai's Vision product does okay and
then lastly you got code Lama which is
from meta and the one you can access
here in the labs is their 7B instruct
model again very cool because uh meta
have gone open source which is
incredible and I think very smart move
by meta and you can use the code llama
which is for coders and uh from what I'm
hearing it's it's quite good
so let's go play with perplexity I've
got a prompt here oh no that was explain
mistu so over here let me find the
document real quick Copy this okay this
is from our
ultimate
um so organized here so our ultimate
prompt toolkit okay this is a free gift
that we give it has a bunch of training
on prompt structure and we're using one
of the prompts today uh which one are we
using uh we're using the personalized
learning prompt there's an explanation
and all of that here here's the prompt
itself you can get your hands on that
I'll drop the link in the description or
comments below depending on where you're
seeing this video hit the Subscribe
while you're there please helps me out a
lot uh but let's run this prompt into
perplexity and I'll show you the big
difference that this model has over any
other model okay um okay well we don't
want to call it GPT so we'll just call
it hello and we want it to be an expert
specializing in making cats love us
we're gonna have a bit of fun okay so
I'm going to give it two pieces of
context we want personalized learning I
want to learn it my way that's advantage
of AI folks I talk about this a lot the
ability to personalize output you know
it's going to disrupt Society but it can
do a lot for us too oh easy to get
distracted in the AI space is so much
happening anyway what I'm doing here is
aligning this prompt to my learning
style and I want to know how to make my
cat love me and enjoy Pats from me and
so that's the learning material I want
it to make and my current level is poor
the cat drives to bite me when I go to
Pat it it's a black C with the
personality and it only likes me when I
feed it and then just create me some
learning material that will help me
understand this make it fun engaging
ensure it's aligned to my learning
styles etc etc a token override just to
push the uh response into multiple
outputs if required stops that
condensing of responses that you
get uh when they're all trying to save
on Hardware now here's what perplexity
does different the first thing it does
is it asks a question okay so it runs
the prompt and it'll ask a question what
type of learning materials do you prefer
so you can tell it that or you can just
Skip and get the answer but then it does
something else so you can see here it is
now searching the web for cat behavior
and Body Language etc etc so so it is
running a search function then takes all
that search
information adds that context to my
prompt and then runs the prompt through
the chosen model which in this case is
Claude three and here it is right so
it's understanding my cat's personality
creating a safe predictable
environment um and so on using food and
play to bond so actually pretty cool
right so folks if you've got a cat that
won't love you uh don't this is just a
silly madeup example to have a bit of
fun but uh yeah this is the power of AI
you can solve any problem now pretty
much or at least get a strategy to solve
it so we'll let that run so I have to
say it's about similar Pace a bit slow
uh but it's giving some really cool
information so this is pulling it in
from Claude 3 Opus model uh look we're
getting um references so if you're
writing articles or you need references
it's it's backing it up that will help
you understand whether or not it's
hallucinating I like that and look it's
saying to be continued which is pushing
into the next thing so let's just say uh
please continue and just see what it's
got here for us
folks this is a very long answer to a
very simple question but uh very very
cool uh what let's just skip that so
it's going to do that every time it's
going to ask a question sometimes the
questions are good sometimes are not
it's a wee bit hit a Miss I found I tell
you what for 20 bucks a month you get
all of this functionality which you
don't get anywhere else you don't get to
try all the different models uh or the
three different image generators um you
know and if it wasn't if they had custom
instructions and stuff like that like I
have with chat GPT I might even be a
convert uh fulltime but it's a good way
to test other models and when my
allocation Runs Out in gp4 I can come
here and keep going okay so it's still
going uh it's just repeating it okay
so obviously it doesn't like my token
override so I'm going to show you the
image generation as well we've got the
stability
um image generator to do that and when
that's finished you'll see it gives you
the ability to generate an image based
on what it's talking about so it'll be
interesting to see what that comes up
with logical inps understand their
earning trust takes time okay so it's
really trying to align this to me which
is interesting all right end of response
okay so see here on the right generate
image you can search images and it'll
find images you can search videos and
it'll bring up YouTube videos and that
sort of stuff on this topic um right for
example images there's some images on
how to train your cat here's some videos
that you can watch but then you can also
generate an image and it gives you four
Styles uh let me close these down gosh
we'll have to make it a bit smaller just
to see the menu uh you got painting
illustration so on let's do a painting
okay just zoom back in and you can see
up here it's generating us an image and
uh you can regenerate that so this is
from H
stability okay and it's a painting it
looks like a watercolor of some cats so
not very exciting but hey it's there you
can do some cool stuff so folks that's
really just a quick introduction to the
Unicorn that is perplexity uh my final
thoughts on it really are that it has a
lot of uh extra functionality I like the
fact that it does the search uh and then
uses those search results the problem is
a lot of those top search results are
just SEO bloated articles that don't say
a whole lot I'm not sure how good that
is but obviously it's got the power of
the AI behind it as well to refine it so
you're sort of getting the Best of Both
Worlds I think that's pretty cool and uh
for $20 a month if you're not into the
sort of deep prompt engineering levels
where you need your custom instructions
and some of those Advanced
functionalities like prompt editing that
we have within uh chat gpt's UI then
percity is a very good option and I can
see why at $20 a month a lot of people
are going there because they can still
use effectively chat GPT but they can
use all the other stuff as well so love
to hear your thoughts are you using
perplexity do you think they're worth
the $2 a month what if you found works
well what don't you like about it and
I'd love to hear your thoughts just drop
them in the comments below so that's it
for the Unicorn hunting today folks uh
stay with us if you haven't already
please like And subscribe we've got some
cool content coming and on that note
I'll see you tomorrow peace